[ironic.drivers]
agent_ipmitool_nm = ironic_staging_drivers.intel_nm:AgentAndIPMIToolIntelNMDriver
fake_amt_fake = ironic_staging_drivers.amt.drivers:FakeAMTFakeDriver
fake_iboot_fake = ironic_staging_drivers.iboot:FakeIBootFakeDriver
fake_libvirt_fake = ironic_staging_drivers.libvirt:FakeLibvirtFakeDriver
fake_nm = ironic_staging_drivers.intel_nm:FakeIntelNMDriver
fake_wol_fake = ironic_staging_drivers.wol:FakeWakeOnLanFakeDriver
pxe_amt_agent = ironic_staging_drivers.amt.drivers:PXEAndAMTAgentDriver
pxe_amt_iscsi = ironic_staging_drivers.amt.drivers:PXEAndAMTISCSIDriver
pxe_iboot_agent = ironic_staging_drivers.iboot:PXEIBootAgentDriver
pxe_iboot_iscsi = ironic_staging_drivers.iboot:PXEIBootISCSIDriver
pxe_libvirt_agent = ironic_staging_drivers.libvirt:PXELibvirtAgentDriver
pxe_libvirt_iscsi = ironic_staging_drivers.libvirt:PXELibvirtISCSIDriver
pxe_wol_agent = ironic_staging_drivers.wol:PXEWakeOnLanAgentDriver
pxe_wol_iscsi = ironic_staging_drivers.wol:PXEWakeOnLanISCSIDriver

[ironic.hardware.interfaces.deploy]
staging-amt = ironic_staging_drivers.amt.deploy:AMTISCSIDeploy

[ironic.hardware.interfaces.management]
staging-amt = ironic_staging_drivers.amt.management:AMTManagement
staging-libvirt = ironic_staging_drivers.libvirt.power:LibvirtManagement
staging-ovirt = ironic_staging_drivers.ovirt.ovirt:oVirtManagement

[ironic.hardware.interfaces.power]
staging-amt = ironic_staging_drivers.amt.power:AMTPower
staging-iboot = ironic_staging_drivers.iboot.power:IBootPower
staging-libvirt = ironic_staging_drivers.libvirt.power:LibvirtPower
staging-ovirt = ironic_staging_drivers.ovirt.ovirt:oVirtPower
staging-wol = ironic_staging_drivers.wol.power:WakeOnLanPower

[ironic.hardware.interfaces.vendor]
staging-nm = ironic_staging_drivers.intel_nm.nm_vendor:IntelNMVendorPassthru

[ironic.hardware.types]
staging-amt = ironic_staging_drivers.amt.drivers:AMTHardware
staging-iboot = ironic_staging_drivers.iboot:IBootHardware
staging-libvirt = ironic_staging_drivers.libvirt:LibvirtHardware
staging-nm = ironic_staging_drivers.intel_nm:IntelNMHardware
staging-ovirt = ironic_staging_drivers.ovirt:oVirtHardware
staging-wol = ironic_staging_drivers.wol:WOLHardware

