.gitattributes
.gitignore
LICENSE
MANIFEST.in
README.md
setup.py
Orange3_Textable_Prototypes.egg-info/PKG-INFO
Orange3_Textable_Prototypes.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
Orange3_Textable_Prototypes.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
Orange3_Textable_Prototypes.egg-info/entry_points.txt
Orange3_Textable_Prototypes.egg-info/namespace_packages.txt
Orange3_Textable_Prototypes.egg-info/not-zip-safe
Orange3_Textable_Prototypes.egg-info/requires.txt
Orange3_Textable_Prototypes.egg-info/top_level.txt
doc/Makefile
doc/build_the_docs.bat
doc/conf.py
doc/index.rst
doc/make.bat
doc/_build/.buildinfo
doc/_build/genindex.html
doc/_build/index.html
doc/_build/objects.inv
doc/_build/search.html
doc/_build/searchindex.js
doc/_build/.doctrees/environment.pickle
doc/_build/.doctrees/index.doctree
doc/_build/.doctrees/widgets/18th_Century_Poetry.doctree
doc/_build/.doctrees/widgets/TextTree.doctree
doc/_build/.doctrees/widgets/linguistica.doctree
doc/_build/.doctrees/widgets/theatre_classique.doctree
doc/_build/.doctrees/widgets/topic_models.doctree
doc/_build/_images/18thCenturyPoetry.png
doc/_build/_images/18thCenturyPoetry_Advanced.png
doc/_build/_images/18thCenturyPoetry_Basic.png
doc/_build/_images/TextTree_Basic.png
doc/_build/_images/banner.jpg
doc/_build/_images/linguistica.png
doc/_build/_images/linguistica_interface_signatures.png
doc/_build/_images/linguistica_interface_words.png
doc/_build/_images/textTree.png
doc/_build/_images/text_tree_advanced_interface.PNG
doc/_build/_images/theatre_classique.png
doc/_build/_images/theatre_classique_advanced_interface.png
doc/_build/_images/theatre_classique_basic_interface.png
doc/_build/_images/topic_models.png
doc/_build/_images/topic_models_interface.png
doc/_build/_sources/index.rst.txt
doc/_build/_sources/widgets/18th_Century_Poetry.rst.txt
doc/_build/_sources/widgets/TextTree.rst.txt
doc/_build/_sources/widgets/linguistica.rst.txt
doc/_build/_sources/widgets/theatre_classique.rst.txt
doc/_build/_sources/widgets/topic_models.rst.txt
doc/_build/_static/ajax-loader.gif
doc/_build/_static/basic.css
doc/_build/_static/comment-bright.png
doc/_build/_static/comment-close.png
doc/_build/_static/comment.png
doc/_build/_static/doctools.js
doc/_build/_static/down-pressed.png
doc/_build/_static/down.png
doc/_build/_static/file.png
doc/_build/_static/jquery-3.1.0.js
doc/_build/_static/jquery.js
doc/_build/_static/minus.png
doc/_build/_static/nature.css
doc/_build/_static/plus.png
doc/_build/_static/pygments.css
doc/_build/_static/searchtools.js
doc/_build/_static/underscore-1.3.1.js
doc/_build/_static/underscore.js
doc/_build/_static/up-pressed.png
doc/_build/_static/up.png
doc/_build/_static/websupport.js
doc/_build/widgets/18th_Century_Poetry.html
doc/_build/widgets/TextTree.html
doc/_build/widgets/linguistica.html
doc/_build/widgets/theatre_classique.html
doc/_build/widgets/topic_models.html
doc/figures/banner.jpg
doc/widgets/18th_Century_Poetry.rst
doc/widgets/TextTree.bak
doc/widgets/linguistica.rst
doc/widgets/theatre_classique.rst
doc/widgets/topic_models.rst
doc/widgets/figures/18thCenturyPoetry.png
doc/widgets/figures/18thCenturyPoetry_Advanced.png
doc/widgets/figures/18thCenturyPoetry_Basic.png
doc/widgets/figures/TextTree_Basic.png
doc/widgets/figures/banner.jpg
doc/widgets/figures/linguistica.png
doc/widgets/figures/linguistica_interface_signatures.png
doc/widgets/figures/linguistica_interface_words.png
doc/widgets/figures/textTree.png
doc/widgets/figures/text_tree_advanced_interface.PNG
doc/widgets/figures/theatre_classique.png
doc/widgets/figures/theatre_classique_advanced_interface.png
doc/widgets/figures/theatre_classique_basic_interface.png
doc/widgets/figures/topic_models.png
doc/widgets/figures/topic_models_interface.png
orangecontrib/__init__.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/__init__.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/__init__.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/sampleList.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/test_example.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/Tip-top .rtf
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/other nice folder/2015/jurassic park.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/other nice folder/2015/tableau bleu.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/other nice folder/2017/jurassic marc.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/other nice folder/2017/test 17.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/other nice folder/2017/juin/patate.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2016/test 16.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2016/février/berenice1.jpg
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2016/février/tableau noir.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2016/février/webpage.html
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2016/janvier/Résumé_méthodo.odt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2016/janvier/cheval.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2016/janvier/sampleList.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2016/janvier/tableau blanc.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2017/excel data new.xlsx
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2017/excel data.xls
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2017/indiana jones.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2017/office word.docx
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2017/statistics.csv
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tests/choose me !/very nice folder/2017/test 17.txt
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tutorials/__init__.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tutorials/tutorial_18th_century_poetry.ows
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tutorials/tutorial_linguistica.ows
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tutorials/tutorial_text_tree.bak
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tutorials/tutorial_theatre_classique.ows
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/tutorials/tutorial_topic_models.ows
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/18thCenturyPoetry.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/Linguistica.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/TextTree.bak
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/TheatreClassique.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/TopicModels.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/__init__.py
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/cached_title_list
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/cached_title_list_ecp
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/18th_century_poetry.svg
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/Category-Textable-Prototypes.png
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/ECPIcon.svg
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/FolderTreeB_32.png
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/FolderTree_32.png
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/FolderTree_54.png
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/folder_tree.jpg
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/linguistica.svg
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/textTree.svg
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/theatre_classique.svg
orangecontrib/textable_prototypes/widgets/icons/topic_models.svg